I'm hungry
wheel me up I'm Laura Botticelli and we
are cooking with Italian style it's not
always fast it's not always easy and
it's not always Italian we use the
freshest and finest ingredients that we
can find an afford and we not only savor
the meals we make we savor making them
fats cooking with Italian style this
week we're making my veal piccata and
we're serving that with polenta and
roasted asparagus it's a surprisingly
simple and wonderfully elegant dish well
let's get cooking I'm finishing my prep
which is very important for this recipe
because it moves really quickly once you
start putting it together this is some
Italian parsley I've already made my
polenta which I will finish off right
before plating and I roasted my
asparagus which will serve at room
temperature I had an absolutely great
morning this morning I went to the
Minneapolis farmer's market got some
fresh flowers and asparagus flowers go
with my outfit Thank You Park boutique
now the term piccata refers to the word
pick wand which means sharp or spicy
just like the word picante in this
recipe
it's the capers and lemons that give it
that sharpness so I'm going to get an
apron on and we'll start putting all of
this together I sprinkle my veal cutlets
on both sides with a very light
sprinkling of salt and pepper and now
I'm going to season my flour teaspoon of
salt
teaspoon of pepper I'm just gonna whisk
these together the little list so it's
evenly distributed
now the veal cutlets which I have here
these are about a half inch thick and
are actually quite even I got lucky on
this sometimes they're not even at all
but I still want them thinner I want
them to be about a quarter of an inch
okay that looks good so I've got some
parchment paper right here take one of
my cutlets lay it on the parchment paper
fold the other side over and then I've
got my mallet and I'm just going to
pound these out so the trick to this is
not to overdo it these are actually
quite delicate so you just want to give
it a few good snaps absolutely perfect
okay I'll do the rest of these and then
we will dredge them with flour all we do
with this is basically dredge them right
in the flour like so and then you shake
it off you don't want that excess on
there when you go to fry it and do this
with all the rest of mine to make these
really special I'm taking some fresh
sage right out of the garden and
securing it with that big onto each
medallion I cut these in half by the way
I decided I wanted them a little smaller
so I took each little fillet and cut it
in half
and see how simple that is and these
will fry really nicely when you saute
these adding some just really good
flavor to it you can really smell that
sage don't these look just great just on
the last one here now I'm going to heat
in a skillet 2 tablespoons of olive
olive oil and 1 tablespoon of butter and
we'll get these saute and calvess is
ready when the butter starts to bubble
up and then settles down and you know
you're set just going to lay these in
here that's like that I'm doing it
sage side down these only go for about a
minute you have to really stand by just
flip them right over have to be careful
with this
all right it's pretty remember to just
pull back you're right out and the page
is sick as a medallion
okay one more minute when will be the
second bad honestly I think he's cooked
in less than a minute on each side I'm
just pulling them out and draining them
on some paper towels I let my pan cool
down a little bit I still have some heat
on it though and I'm just going to
deglaze my pan sure that get all those
nice little pits of meat so I have to
glaze the pan you can see all those
little bits of needs and that brown
butter all mixed in and I can't really
smell the alcohol from the wine anymore
so I know that it's properly deglaze
now I'm going to add in a half a cup of
homemade chicken stock and a couple of
tablespoons of freshly squeezed lemon
teaspoons really about two cloves
chopped garlic and my two tablespoons of
capers and I love these these are little
bugs that are Briard given that
wonderful pungent flavor equines
okay I'll give this is store I'm going
to bring this up to a simmer and let it
go for about five minutes and it will
start to thicken up this looks just
perfect so I'm going to add in my last
two tablespoons of unsalted butter and
get that melting I can smell those
capers and lemons and then a tablespoon
of parsley Italian parsley chopped just
stir that around the butter is
practically melted it is pretty much
melted and I'm going to add just to heat
them through my medallions back into a
little broth here and notice I've taken
the toothpicks out and the sage leaves
just adhere nicely okay I'll get these
heated through and we will be ready to
start plating oh that is perfect doesn't
need any salt the capers take care of
that now for my asparagus i roasted them
just toss them with a little olive oil
salt and pepper
twelve minutes and a 425-degree oven and
the polenta putted two cups of homemade
chicken stock two cups of milk 1 cup of
polenta finished off with just a little
bit of butter and Parmesan cheese
now for my medallions the reasonable
serving of these would be three which
will be about 4 ounces made for a woman
and four which would be about 6 ounces
to make for a man look how the sage
leaves just stayed right on there
they're so pretty
okay then I'm just going to spoon a
little bit of the sauce
over the top and finish my polenta
grating the parmesan over the top of my
veal medallions sprinkling fresh Italian
parsley I'm just gonna clean up the
plate a little bit and we are all set
beautiful if you want this recipe and
more go to Seoul but Bona Chile calm and
click on the recipe button I really hope
you enjoy making my veal Picatta and
cooking with Italian style buon appetito
you